What means "Mendalas"? What is the meaning of the "Mendalas"?
A house of a Buddha? What? A Buddha's house? That's true. Really true.
Center and surroundings in the Shumkor? Yeah, that's also a true word.
The whole bam, the sphere of the deities, Vajrayavadi's speech and mind and activities and
qualities.
"Mendalas" is translated into Tibet as "Jangkok". And also "Mendala", in the Sanskrit word "Mendala
", it has two meanings, I mean two words.
"Mendala" in the teaching said, "Mend" means "mind". The "Dra" is like "maintaining". So it's the
meaning of maintaining the mind.
Meaning of the "Mendala" is the word meaning in the "Sadh" meaning of the "Mendalas".
My language has many meanings, one after another. Also "Mendala" in the teaching said, means that
something that is completed, everything is completed.
Everything is completed in that case. Everything is completed within "Mendalas".
And then Sanskrit meaning also in the teaching said, it has meaning of the circle, round formations
.
So that means, by the mind, if it is round or circle, what that means. And then in the teaching,
the commentaries and the teaching said, everything is circled and completed within the mind.
So everything is within the mind, completed. Then with that expanded that within the mind, mind is
the source of everything.
When it's expanded, then it's known as also, it can be as the houses, the deities. It's true.
Then it's also reflected as the house of the deity or the "Mendala" of the deities. That means,
what means the "Mendala" is the display of the primordial hostess.
"Mendala" is primordial hostess. "Veda" is house. And "Veda" is round. Round, it is as a sphere, is
also mind, everything is within the sphere of the mind.
Mind and nothing is missing out of that. Then "Mendala" is also symbol of the luxuries. House of
the deity is not just poor house.
You can say that the "Sambhokaya" is like one of the richnesses. The mention of the "Sambhokaya" is
big and vast and luxurious.
So, this house of the deity is totally luxuries. Luxuries of the "Pivostas", "Pivostas" that eman
ated in the different forms.
Different textures. And this house is also not very empty. Every, just one person, is filled with
all the different emanations of the Buddhas.
The "Pivostas" is filled with all the different emanations of the Buddhas. The "Pivostas" is filled
with all the different emanations of the Buddhas.
"Mendala" is that means the treasure, the treasure of the nature of the mind that we are opening.
When we open that treasure of the nature of the mind, then what is happening? Then we begin to see.
First, it's a treasure. It's not just a treasure we open the "Mendala" itself. But this is, all is
already existing "Mendala".